guides/error-handling.md, before:

# Error Handling

The SDK returns tuples for execution outcomes and uses a single structured error envelope: `%AmpSdk.Error{}`.

## `run/2` Return Values

`AmpSdk.run/2` returns `{:ok, result}` or `{:error, %AmpSdk.Error{}}`:

```elixir
case AmpSdk.run("do something") do
  {:ok, result} ->
    IO.puts(result)

  {:error, %AmpSdk.Error{kind: :no_result}} ->
    IO.puts("No result received")

  {:error, %AmpSdk.Error{kind: kind, message: message}} ->
    IO.puts("#{kind}: #{message}")
end
```

Common `kind` values include `:cli_not_found`, `:command_timeout`, `:task_timeout`, `:command_failed`, `:execution_failed`, and `:invalid_configuration`.

## Exception Types

These can still be raised in explicit bang APIs or direct constructor usage:

- `AmpSdk.Error` (primary exception envelope)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.CLINotFoundError` (legacy)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.ProcessError` (legacy)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.JSONParseError` (legacy)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.AmpError`

Use tuple returns where possible and pattern-match on `%AmpSdk.Error{}` in application code.

## Low-Level Transport Errors

At the low-level transport boundary (`AmpSdk.Transport.Erlexec`), errors are returned as tagged tuples:

```elixir
{:error, {:transport, reason}}
```

Normalize these when you need the unified envelope:

```elixir
error = AmpSdk.Error.normalize({:transport, :timeout}, kind: :transport_error)
```

## Streaming Errors

When using `AmpSdk.execute/2`, errors are delivered inline as `ErrorResultMessage` structs rather than raising exceptions:

```elixir
AmpSdk.execute("prompt")
|> Enum.each(fn
  %AmpSdk.Types.ErrorResultMessage{error: error, permission_denials: denials} ->
    IO.puts("Error: #{error}")
    if denials, do: IO.puts("Denied tools: #{inspect(denials)}")

  %AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{result: result} ->
    IO.puts("Success: #{result}")

  _ -> :ok
end)
```

## Timeout Handling

Use `Options.stream_timeout_ms` for stream receive timeout control:

```elixir
alias AmpSdk.Types.Options

AmpSdk.execute("slow task", %Options{stream_timeout_ms: 30_000})
|> Enum.to_list()
```

You can still wrap long-running calls in a `Task` if you need outer cancellation:

```elixir
task = Task.async(fn -> AmpSdk.run("slow task") end)

case Task.yield(task, 30_000) || Task.shutdown(task) do
  {:ok, {:ok, result}} -> IO.puts(result)
  {:ok, {:error, %AmpSdk.Error{message: msg}}} -> IO.puts("Error: #{msg}")
  nil -> IO.puts("Timed out after 30s")
end
```

Commit message:

refactor: centralize utilities, harden transport lifecycle
Shared utilities:
- Extract Util module consolidating maybe_put_kw, maybe_append,
  maybe_flag from Command, CLIInvoke, Stream, Tools, Review
- Remove five duplicate private helper definitions across modules

Transport lifecycle:
- Rewrite safe_call/3 to isolate GenServer.call in a monitored
  helper process so timeout/error handling is contained and
  deterministic
- Add headless auto-shutdown (headless_timeout_ms, default 5_000)
  to avoid orphaned subprocesses when no subscriber is attached
- Cancel headless timer on subscribe, schedule on headless boot
- Refactor start_subprocess to keyword opts interface

Exit finalization:
- Replace unbounded drain_stdout_lines_all with bounded batch
  draining via drain_stdout_lines/2 with re-entrant finalize_exit
- Rename flush_stdout_buffer to flush_stdout_fragment to reflect
  narrowed responsibility

Configuration:
- Config.read_option/3 now delegates to fetch_option/3 and raises
  %Error{kind: :invalid_configuration} on atom/string key conflicts
- Add Transport.error_to_error/2 for normalizing low-level transport
  reasons into the unified Error envelope

Timeout centralization:
- Add review, stream, transport_call, transport_force_close, and
  transport_headless timeout defaults to Defaults module
- Replace hardcoded 300_000 / 5_000 / 500 literals in Review,
  Stream, Options, and Erlexec with Defaults references

Tests:
- Add headless auto-stop and finalize drain responsiveness tests
- Add Config conflict detection and fetch_option error tests
- Add Transport.error_to_error normalization tests
- Add Util unit tests for maybe_put_kw, maybe_append, maybe_flag
- Add Defaults centralization and Options tracking tests

Docs:
- Update CHANGELOG, README, and error-handling guide with
  transport error_to_error helper and safe_call changes

guides/error-handling.md, after:

# Error Handling

The SDK returns tuples for execution outcomes and uses a single structured error envelope: `%AmpSdk.Error{}`.

## `run/2` Return Values

`AmpSdk.run/2` returns `{:ok, result}` or `{:error, %AmpSdk.Error{}}`:

```elixir
case AmpSdk.run("do something") do
  {:ok, result} ->
    IO.puts(result)

  {:error, %AmpSdk.Error{kind: :no_result}} ->
    IO.puts("No result received")

  {:error, %AmpSdk.Error{kind: kind, message: message}} ->
    IO.puts("#{kind}: #{message}")
end
```

Common `kind` values include `:cli_not_found`, `:command_timeout`, `:task_timeout`, `:command_failed`, `:execution_failed`, and `:invalid_configuration`.

## Exception Types

These can still be raised in explicit bang APIs or direct constructor usage:

- `AmpSdk.Error` (primary exception envelope)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.CLINotFoundError` (legacy)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.ProcessError` (legacy)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.JSONParseError` (legacy)
- `AmpSdk.Errors.AmpError`

Use tuple returns where possible and pattern-match on `%AmpSdk.Error{}` in application code.

## Low-Level Transport Errors

At the low-level transport boundary (`AmpSdk.Transport.Erlexec`), errors are returned as tagged tuples:

```elixir
{:error, {:transport, reason}}
```

Normalize these when you need the unified envelope:

```elixir
error = AmpSdk.Transport.error_to_error({:transport, :timeout})
# or:
error = AmpSdk.Error.normalize({:transport, :timeout}, kind: :transport_error)
```

## Streaming Errors

When using `AmpSdk.execute/2`, errors are delivered inline as `ErrorResultMessage` structs rather than raising exceptions:

```elixir
AmpSdk.execute("prompt")
|> Enum.each(fn
  %AmpSdk.Types.ErrorResultMessage{error: error, permission_denials: denials} ->
    IO.puts("Error: #{error}")
    if denials, do: IO.puts("Denied tools: #{inspect(denials)}")

  %AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{result: result} ->
    IO.puts("Success: #{result}")

  _ -> :ok
end)
```

## Timeout Handling

Use `Options.stream_timeout_ms` for stream receive timeout control:

```elixir
alias AmpSdk.Types.Options

AmpSdk.execute("slow task", %Options{stream_timeout_ms: 30_000})
|> Enum.to_list()
```

You can still wrap long-running calls in a `Task` if you need outer cancellation:

```elixir
task = Task.async(fn -> AmpSdk.run("slow task") end)

case Task.yield(task, 30_000) || Task.shutdown(task) do
  {:ok, {:ok, result}} -> IO.puts(result)
  {:ok, {:error, %AmpSdk.Error{message: msg}}} -> IO.puts("Error: #{msg}")
  nil -> IO.puts("Timed out after 30s")
end
```
