guides/streaming.md, before:

# Streaming

The Amp SDK uses a streaming architecture to deliver messages in real time as the agent works.

## How It Works

`AmpSdk.execute/2` returns a lazy `Stream` that yields typed message structs. The stream is backed by `Stream.resource/3` — messages are produced as the CLI writes JSON Lines to stdout, and the stream halts automatically when a result message is received.

`execute/2` accepts either:
- a string prompt (`--stream-json` / `--stream-json-thinking`)
- a list of `UserInputMessage` values (`--stream-json-input`)

```
Your App  →  AmpSdk.execute/2  →  AmpSdk.Stream  →  Transport.Erlexec  →  amp CLI
                                     (Stream.resource)   (GenServer)        (subprocess)
```

## Message Types

Messages are yielded in this order during a typical execution:

### 1. `SystemMessage`

Emitted once at the start of a session.

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.SystemMessage{
  type: "system",
  subtype: "init",
  session_id: "T-abc123...",
  cwd: "/path/to/project",
  tools: ["Bash", "Read", "edit_file", ...],
  mcp_servers: [%{name: "fs", status: "connected"}]
}
```

### 2. `AssistantMessage`

The agent's response — may contain text and/or tool calls.

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{
  type: "assistant",
  session_id: "T-abc123...",
  message: %{
    role: "assistant",
    content: [
      %AmpSdk.Types.TextContent{type: "text", text: "Here's what I found..."},
      %AmpSdk.Types.ToolUseContent{type: "tool_use", id: "tu_1", name: "Bash", input: %{"command" => "ls"}}
    ],
    stop_reason: "end_turn",  # or "tool_use"
    usage: %AmpSdk.Types.Usage{input_tokens: 100, output_tokens: 50}
  }
}
```

#### Thinking Content (with `Options.thinking: true`)

When `thinking: true` is set, assistant messages may contain `ThinkingContent` blocks:

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.ThinkingContent{type: "thinking", thinking: "Let me work through this..."}
```

These appear before text content in the `content` list and represent the model's chain-of-thought reasoning.

### 3. `UserMessage`

Tool results fed back to the agent (generated by the CLI, not by you).

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.UserMessage{
  type: "user",
  message: %{
    role: "user",
    content: [
      %AmpSdk.Types.ToolResultContent{tool_use_id: "tu_1", content: "file.txt\nREADME.md"}
    ]
  }
}
```

### 4. `ResultMessage` / `ErrorResultMessage`

Final outcome — the stream halts after this.

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{
  result: "The project has 12 modules.",
  duration_ms: 3500,
  num_turns: 2,
  is_error: false
}

%AmpSdk.Types.ErrorResultMessage{
  error: "Permission denied for tool Bash",
  duration_ms: 100,
  num_turns: 0,
  is_error: true,
  permission_denials: ["Bash"]
}
```

## Patterns

### Collect Final Result Only

```elixir
{:ok, result} = AmpSdk.run("What is 2+2?")
```

### Typewriter Effect

```elixir
AmpSdk.execute("Write a poem")
|> Enum.each(fn
  %AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{message: %{content: content}} ->
    for %AmpSdk.Types.TextContent{text: text} <- content, do: IO.write(text)

  %AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{} ->
    IO.puts("\n--- done ---")

  _ -> :ok
end)
```

### Accumulate with Metadata

```elixir
result =
  AmpSdk.execute("Analyze this code")
  |> Enum.reduce(%{text: "", turns: 0, ms: 0}, fn
    %AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{message: %{content: content}}, acc ->
      text = content |> Enum.filter(&match?(%{type: "text"}, &1)) |> Enum.map(& &1.text) |> Enum.join()
      %{acc | text: acc.text <> text}

    %AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{num_turns: t, duration_ms: ms}, acc ->
      %{acc | turns: t, ms: ms}

    _, acc -> acc
  end)
```

### Filter by Message Type

```elixir
tool_calls =
  AmpSdk.execute("Fix this bug")
  |> Stream.filter(&match?(%AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{}, &1))
  |> Stream.flat_map(fn %{message: %{content: content}} ->
    Enum.filter(content, &match?(%AmpSdk.Types.ToolUseContent{}, &1))
  end)
  |> Enum.to_list()
```

## Timeouts

Set stream timeout directly via `Options.stream_timeout_ms`:

```elixir
alias AmpSdk.Types.Options

AmpSdk.execute("Long running task", %Options{stream_timeout_ms: 30_000})
|> Enum.to_list()
```

For outer cancellation boundaries, you can still wrap with `Task`:

```elixir
task = Task.async(fn ->
  AmpSdk.execute("Long running task") |> Enum.to_list()
end)

case Task.yield(task, 30_000) || Task.shutdown(task) do
  {:ok, messages} -> handle_messages(messages)
  nil -> IO.puts("Timed out")
end
```

Commit message:

refactor: harden internals and expand test coverage
Transport & process management:
- Extract TaskSupport module for supervised task lifecycle
- Improve Erlexec GenServer cleanup and subscriber handling
- Tighten Transport behaviour contract

Error handling:
- Strengthen Error.normalize/2 for all input types
- Add error_normalize_test.exs covering edge cases
- Improve error propagation through Command pipeline

Stream engine:
- Refine stream cleanup on startup failure paths
- Fix async timeout result message flushing
- Harden settings file merge and temp dir lifecycle

Infrastructure:
- Tighten Env filtering and validation
- Clean up Config normalization helpers
- Update Types constructors with stricter validation

Tests:
- Fix command, env, stream, and transport test suites
- Add Error.normalize comprehensive test coverage
- Update stream cleanup and execute test fixtures

Docs:
- Sync README and guides with current API surface
- Update configuration and streaming guide examples

guides/streaming.md, after:

# Streaming

The Amp SDK uses a streaming architecture to deliver messages in real time as the agent works.

## How It Works

`AmpSdk.execute/2` returns a lazy `Stream` that yields typed message structs. The stream is backed by `Stream.resource/3` — messages are produced as the CLI writes JSON Lines to stdout, and the stream halts automatically when a result message is received.

The stream consumer uses selective receive for transport-tagged messages only. This means unrelated mailbox messages in the caller process are preserved, so `execute/2` can be used safely from OTP processes that also handle other messages.

`execute/2` accepts either:
- a string prompt (`--stream-json` / `--stream-json-thinking`)
- a list of `UserInputMessage` values (`--stream-json-input`)

```
Your App  →  AmpSdk.execute/2  →  AmpSdk.Stream  →  Transport.Erlexec  →  amp CLI
                                     (Stream.resource)   (GenServer)        (subprocess)
```

## Message Types

Messages are yielded in this order during a typical execution:

### 1. `SystemMessage`

Emitted once at the start of a session.

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.SystemMessage{
  type: "system",
  subtype: "init",
  session_id: "T-abc123...",
  cwd: "/path/to/project",
  tools: ["Bash", "Read", "edit_file", ...],
  mcp_servers: [%{name: "fs", status: "connected"}]
}
```

### 2. `AssistantMessage`

The agent's response — may contain text and/or tool calls.

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{
  type: "assistant",
  session_id: "T-abc123...",
  message: %{
    role: "assistant",
    content: [
      %AmpSdk.Types.TextContent{type: "text", text: "Here's what I found..."},
      %AmpSdk.Types.ToolUseContent{type: "tool_use", id: "tu_1", name: "Bash", input: %{"command" => "ls"}}
    ],
    stop_reason: "end_turn",  # or "tool_use"
    usage: %AmpSdk.Types.Usage{input_tokens: 100, output_tokens: 50}
  }
}
```

#### Thinking Content (with `Options.thinking: true`)

When `thinking: true` is set, assistant messages may contain `ThinkingContent` blocks:

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.ThinkingContent{type: "thinking", thinking: "Let me work through this..."}
```

These appear before text content in the `content` list and represent the model's chain-of-thought reasoning.

### 3. `UserMessage`

Tool results fed back to the agent (generated by the CLI, not by you).

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.UserMessage{
  type: "user",
  message: %{
    role: "user",
    content: [
      %AmpSdk.Types.ToolResultContent{tool_use_id: "tu_1", content: "file.txt\nREADME.md"}
    ]
  }
}
```

### 4. `ResultMessage` / `ErrorResultMessage`

Final outcome — the stream halts after this.

```elixir
%AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{
  result: "The project has 12 modules.",
  duration_ms: 3500,
  num_turns: 2,
  is_error: false
}

%AmpSdk.Types.ErrorResultMessage{
  error: "Permission denied for tool Bash",
  duration_ms: 100,
  num_turns: 0,
  is_error: true,
  permission_denials: ["Bash"]
}
```

## Patterns

### Collect Final Result Only

```elixir
{:ok, result} = AmpSdk.run("What is 2+2?")
```

### Typewriter Effect

```elixir
AmpSdk.execute("Write a poem")
|> Enum.each(fn
  %AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{message: %{content: content}} ->
    for %AmpSdk.Types.TextContent{text: text} <- content, do: IO.write(text)

  %AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{} ->
    IO.puts("\n--- done ---")

  _ -> :ok
end)
```

### Accumulate with Metadata

```elixir
result =
  AmpSdk.execute("Analyze this code")
  |> Enum.reduce(%{text: "", turns: 0, ms: 0}, fn
    %AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{message: %{content: content}}, acc ->
      text = content |> Enum.filter(&match?(%{type: "text"}, &1)) |> Enum.map(& &1.text) |> Enum.join()
      %{acc | text: acc.text <> text}

    %AmpSdk.Types.ResultMessage{num_turns: t, duration_ms: ms}, acc ->
      %{acc | turns: t, ms: ms}

    _, acc -> acc
  end)
```

### Filter by Message Type

```elixir
tool_calls =
  AmpSdk.execute("Fix this bug")
  |> Stream.filter(&match?(%AmpSdk.Types.AssistantMessage{}, &1))
  |> Stream.flat_map(fn %{message: %{content: content}} ->
    Enum.filter(content, &match?(%AmpSdk.Types.ToolUseContent{}, &1))
  end)
  |> Enum.to_list()
```

## Timeouts

Set stream timeout directly via `Options.stream_timeout_ms`:

```elixir
alias AmpSdk.Types.Options

AmpSdk.execute("Long running task", %Options{stream_timeout_ms: 30_000})
|> Enum.to_list()
```

For outer cancellation boundaries, you can still wrap with `Task`:

```elixir
task = Task.async(fn ->
  AmpSdk.execute("Long running task") |> Enum.to_list()
end)

case Task.yield(task, 30_000) || Task.shutdown(task) do
  {:ok, messages} -> handle_messages(messages)
  nil -> IO.puts("Timed out")
end
```
